Bugshan, A. and I. Farooq (2020). "Oral squamous cell carcinoma: metastasis, potentially associated malignant disorders, etiology and recent advancements in diagnosis." F1000Res 9: 229.
	Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a commonly occurring head and neck cancer. It has a high prevalence in certain parts of the world, and is associated with a high mortality rate. In this review, we describe metastasis related to OSCC, and disorders that could lead to OSCC with common etiological factors. In addition, a brief account of the diagnosis of OSCC and role of salivary biomarkers in its early detection has also been highlighted. Google Scholar and PubMed search engines were searched with keywords including "oral squamous cell carcinoma", "OSCC", "oral cancer", "potentially malignant disorders in oral cavity", "etiological factors of OSCC",  "diagnosis of OSCC", and "salivary biomarkers and OSCC" to gather the literature for this review. The review concludes that OSCC has the potential for regional as well as distant metastasis, and many potentially malignant diseases can transform into OSCC with the help of various etiological factors. Diagnosis of OSCC involves traditional biopsy, but salivary biomarkers could also be utilized for early recognition.

Chai, A. W. Y., et al. (2020). "Translational genomics and recent advances in oral squamous cell carcinoma." Semin Cancer Biol 61: 71-83.
	Oral squamous cell carcinomas (OSCC) are a heterogeneous group of cancers arising from the mucosal lining of the oral cavity. A majority of these cancers are associated with lifestyle risk habits including smoking, excessive alcohol consumption and betel quid chewing. Cetuximab, targeting the epidermal growth factor receptor was approved for the treatment of OSCC in 2006, and remains the only molecular targeted therapy available for OSCC. Here, we reviewed the current findings from genomic analyses of OSCC and discuss how these studies inform on the biological mechanisms underlying OSCC. Exome sequencing revealed that the significantly mutated genes are mainly tumour suppressors. Mutations in FAT1, CASP8, CDKN2A, and NOTCH1 are more frequently found in OSCC when compared to non-OSCC head and neck cancers and other squamous cell carcinomas, and HRAS and PIK3CA are the only significantly mutated oncogenes. The distribution of these mutations also differs in populations with distinct risk habits. Gene expression-based molecular classification showed that OSCC can be divided into distinct subtypes and these have a preferential response to different types of therapies, suggesting that these classifications could have clinical implications. More recently, with the approval of checkpoint inhibitors for the treatment of cancers including OSCC, genomics studies also dissected the genetic signatures of the immune compartment to delineate immune-active and -exhausted subtypes that could inform on the immune status of OSCC patients and guide the development of novel therapies to improve response to immunotherapy. Taken together, genomics studies are informing on the biology of both the epithelial and stromal compartments underlying OSCC development, and we discuss the opportunities and challenges in using these to derive clinical benefit for OSCC patients.

Lin, X., et al. (2022). "MicroRNA-31: a pivotal oncogenic factor in oral squamous cell carcinoma." Cell Death Discov 8(1): 140.
	Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) continuously constitutes a major challenge for treatment and prognosis due to approximately half of treated OSCC patients dying from locoregional recurrences and distant metastases. MicroRNA-31 (miR-31), an early mammalian miRNA identified, has been gaining importance in the field of OSCC research in recent years. This comprehensive review was conducted for the first time to summarize the current evidence on the association between miR-31 and OSCC. The vast majority of relevant studies (20/21, 95%) demonstrated that miR-31 was an oncogenic factor in the tumorigenesis and progression of OSCC. miR-31 expression is significantly upregulated in plasma, saliva, and tumor tissue of OSCC. miR-31 played an essential role in OSCC development by constituting a complex network with its targeted genes (e.g. RhoA, FIH, ACOX1, VEGF, SIRT3, LATS2, KANK1, and NUMB) and the signaling cascades (e.g. EGF-AKT signaling axis, ERK-MMP9 cascade, Hippo pathway, Wnt signaling, and MCT1/MCT4 regulatory cascade). This review highlights that miR-31 might function as a potential diagnostic, prognostic, and predictive biomarker for OSCC. Further studies are still warranted to better illuminate the clinicopathological features and the molecular mechanisms of miR-31-mediated OSCC development.

Mesgari, H., et al. (2023). "Epigenetic Regulation in Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma Microenvironment: A Comprehensive Review." Cancers (Basel) 15(23).
	Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a prevalent and significant type of oral cancer that has far-reaching health implications worldwide. Epigenetics, a field focused on studying heritable changes in gene expression without modifying DNA sequence, plays a pivotal role in OSCC. Epigenetic changes, encompassing DNA methylation, histone modifications, and miRNAs, exert control over gene activity and cellular characteristics. In OSCC, aberrant DNA methylation of tumor suppressor genes (TSG) leads to their inactivation, subsequently facilitating tumor growth. As a result, distinct patterns of gene methylation hold promise as valuable biomarkers for the detection of OSCC. Oral cancer treatment typically involves surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy, but even with these treatments, cancer cells cannot be effectively targeted and destroyed. Researchers are therefore exploring new methods to target and eliminate cancer cells. One promising approach is the use of epigenetic modifiers, such as DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitors and histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, which have been shown to modify abnormal epigenetic patterns in OSCC cells, leading to the reactivation of TSGs and the suppression of oncogenes. As a result, epigenetic-targeted therapies have the potential to directly alter gene expression and minimize side effects. Several studies have explored the efficacy of such therapies in the treatment of OSCC. Although studies have investigated the efficacy of epigenetic therapies, challenges in identifying reliable biomarkers and developing effective combination treatments are acknowledged. Of note, epigenetic mechanisms play a significant role in drug resistance in OSCC and other cancers. Aberrant DNA methylation can silence tumor suppressor genes, while alterations in histone modifications and chromatin remodeling affect gene expression related to drug metabolism and cell survival. Thus, understanding and targeting these epigenetic processes offer potential strategies to overcome drug resistance and improve the efficacy of cancer treatments in OSCC. This comprehensive review focuses on the complex interplay between epigenetic alterations and OSCC cells. This will involve a deep dive into the mechanisms underlying epigenetic modifications and their impact on OSCC, including its initiation, progression, and metastasis. Furthermore, this review will present the role of epigenetics in the treatment and diagnosis of OSCC.

Zhang, Y., et al. (2023). "Extracellular vesicles in oral squamous cell carcinoma: current progress and future prospect." Front Bioeng Biotechnol 11: 1149662.
	Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is the most aggressive oral and maxillofacial malignancy with a high incidence and low survival rate. OSCC is mainly diagnosed by tissue biopsy, which is a highly traumatic procedure with poor timeliness. Although there are various options for treating OSCC, most of them are invasive and have unpredictable therapeutic outcomes. Generally, early diagnosis and noninvasive treatment cannot be always satisfied simultaneously in OSCC. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are involved in intercellular communication. EVs facilitate disease progression and reflect the location and status of the lesions. Therefore, EVs are relatively less invasive diagnostic tools for OSCC. Furthermore, the mechanisms by which EVs are involved in tumorigenesis and tumor treatment have been well studied. This article dissects the involvement of EVs in the diagnosis, development, and treatment of OSCC, providing new insight into the treatment of OSCC by EVs. Different mechanisms, such as inhibiting EV internalization by OSCC cells and constructing engineered vesicles, with potential applications for treating OSCC will be discussed in this review article.

